# SDN-Traffic-Classification

Software defined networks (SDN) is an newly-developing technology, which is capable of address problems in the traditional network by simplifying network management, introducing network programmability, and providing a global view of a network. Recent years, SDN has brought new opportunity to classify traffic. . It is important to manage existing network re-sources efficiently. Even the number of users connected to the network is increas-ing, not all users required the same amount of network resources. Identifying eachuser’s demand and behavior on the network will enable the operator to managenetwork resources much more efficiently.In a network, there are two basic types of traffic flows: elephant flows andmice flows. Elephant flows are referred to as heavy traffic flows and mice flows arereferred to as light traffic flows. And typically the resource allocation process forthese flows are standard. This approach of resource allocation is a waste of net-work resources and allocating the same amount of resources for both flows is notan optimum solution. When  it  comes  to  network  traffic  classification,  ML  algorithms  depend  ona large number of network features. And software defined networking will en-able ML algorithms to control the network and can become automatic resourceallocation process.

In this repo, we analyse supervised ML algorithms for traffic classification. We have used dataset provided by [1] which was captured in a real-world ToR network. he dataset is diversified and represents a comprehensive range of QoS classes. The dataset consists of more than 18 applications including Facebook skype, Spotify, Gmail etc. 

References
[1] Lashkari,  A.  H.,  Draper-Gil,  G.,  Mamun,  M.  S.  I.,  &  Ghorbani,  A.  A.  (2017). Characterization of Tor Traffic using Time based Features. InICISSP, pp. 253-262.
